welcome this exercise will guide you
through five minutes of practice and
concentration on the breath stage one
for a thorough introduction to all four
stages try the complete concentration
instructions let's begin find a quiet
space turn off any ringers and switch
your mobile phone or tablet to airplane
mode loosen any restrictive clothing and
sit in a stable and comfortable upright
position if possible let your eyes close
begin breathing through your nose
deliberately take a few deep breaths
long and slow
fill your belly on the in breath let it
empty on the out-breath
now let go control of your breath and
just breathe naturally let the breath
determine its own length let it find its
own rhythm let your breath continue on
its own and place your attention at the
entrance to your nose notice how it
feels just inside your nose when you
breathe cool air going in warm air going
out try it for a moment now
cool in
warm out
cool in warm out
this is your home base the place you
returned to when your mind wanders the
place just inside your nose where you
most feel your breath
now we'll count the breath continue
breathing naturally let your breath
breathe itself after your in-breath
mentally count one after your out-breath
mentally count two then three and so on
up to ten let's breathe two breaths
together now in one out two in three out
four try it on your own for a few
breaths now
if you lose count try not to judge or
criticize yourself we all lose focus
simply notice that your mind has
wandered and gently return your
attention to your breathing just inside
your nose on your next in-breath begin
again at number one try it for another
moment now
if you reach 10 start back again at 1
keep counting on your own a while now
this exercise is almost finished feel
free to pause it now and continue
practicing longer on your own when you
are ready slowly open your eyes if they
are closed notice how you feel compared
to when you started appreciate your
efforts
whatever you were able to do or however
your mind wandered the time you took
today itself is your success you can
repeat this exercise as often as you
like anytime and anywhere your breath is
always with you when you can focus on
your breath for five minutes without
losing count you are ready for Stage two
there is no set time for this it just
depends on how often you practice
remember that your ringers and mobile
devices have been turned off
we hope you have enjoyed this
concentration exercise